Grammar Updates to the General Folder (#1026)
AdguardTeam/AdguardKnowledgeBase: 01.general/05.adguard-filter-policy/docs.en.md

visible: true
---

> When discussing AdGuard ad filters, there is often one topic that causes disputes – whether AdGuard should block this or that ad. By framing the rules, we stick to special criteria. Our criteria are very similar to [EasyList Policy](https://easylist.to/pages/policy.html), which we find correct and appropriate. Nevertheless, we've made some changes to it.

Author: ```suggestion
When discussing AdGuard ad filters, one topic often comes up — whether AdGuard should block this or that ad. By setting the rules, we stick to specific criteria that are very similar to [EasyList Policy](https://easylist.to/pages/policy.html), which we find correct and appropriate. However, we have made some changes to it.
```

A "third party" is any party that does not fall within the definition of the first party above. Interactions with other parties are considered third-party, even if the user is transiently informed in context (for example, in the form of a redirect). Merely hovering over, muting, pausing, or closing a given piece of content does not constitute an intention to interact.

## Common criteria

These equally apply to rules in all filters.

- Rules that often cause problems with the work of some websites will be deleted.
- Rules that are specific to a particular website will be added only if the website has sufficient traffic. Traffic is determined by open statistics (if it has such) or in other ways, for example, social media following. A website’s traffic is considered sufficient when it has 30 thousand monthly visitors.

## Ad filters

> This part describes the AdGuard Base filter, the Mobile Ads filter and the following language-specific filters: Russian, German, Dutch, Spanish/Portuguese, Japanese, Turkish, Chinese, French.

Author: ```suggestion
This part describes the AdGuard Base filter, the Mobile Ads filter, and the following language-specific filters: Russian, German, Dutch, Spanish/Portuguese, Japanese, Turkish, Chinese, and French.
```

- We will block ads caused by malicious apps or extensions that inject ads. Please note that we do it only on condition that you specify how to install this app or extension.

##### Limitations and Exceptions

If a rule is subject to the list of limitations described below, then it won’t be added to the main filters.

- Websites’ own ads are not to be removed on purpose. On the other hand, it shouldn’t be unblocked because such unblocking can cause the display of third-party ads.
- Rules that are specific to a particular website will be added only if the website has sufficient traffic. Traffic is determined by open statistics (if it has such) or in other ways, for example, social media following. A website’s traffic is considered sufficient when it has 30 thousand monthly visitors.
- Anti-adblock scripts will be blocked only if they limit the functionality of the website or interfere with its use.
- Anti-adblock scripts will not be blocked in cases when it is prohibited by law.
- Rules that often cause problems with the work of some websites will be deleted.

## Tracking Protection filter

##### What will be blocked with this filter?

> - This filter shall block all trackers that collect users' personal data.

Author: ```suggestion
- This filter will block all trackers that collect users' personal data.
```

We define **tracking** as the collection of data regarding an individual’s identity or activity across one or more websites. Even if such data is not believed to be personally identifiable, it’s still tracking.

**Tracker** is an online script that has tracking as its only purpose, or as one of its purposes.

##### Limitations and Exceptions

If a rule is subject to the list of limitations described below, then it won’t be added to this filter.

> - Rules that cause problems with the functioning of websites will be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
- Rules that cause problems with websites' functionality will be removed.
```

- Rules that are specific to a particular website will be added only if the website has sufficient traffic. Traffic is determined by open statistics (if it has such) or in other ways, for example, social media following. A website’s traffic is considered sufficient when it has 30 thousand monthly visitors.

## AdGuard URL Tracking filter

##### What will be blocked with this filter?

- This filter will strip all tracking parameters from URLs.

We define **tracking** as the collection of data regarding an individual’s identity or activity across one or more websites. Even if such data is not believed to be personally identifiable, it’s still tracking.

##### Limitations and Exceptions

If a rule is subject to the list of limitations described below, then it won’t be added to this filter.

> - Rules that would risk lowering a user's security level will be removed. 

Author: ```suggestion
- Rules that would reduce users' security levels will be removed. 
```

> - Rules that cause problems with the functioning of websites will be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
- Rules that cause problems with websites' functionality will be removed.
```
